Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want to talk a little bit about some problems with the closed Clinton mental face.
We just got Don going through an implementation or reuse this interface.
There is some debate in the software community about the utility of the clone a little interface.
Luckily it's really the best approach that we have.
So we're gonna stick with it but I still wanted to bring up to your attention some of the issues that
are with it.
So you have alternatives if you don't want to use clinical so from a previous lecture we know that the
implementation of the product type design pattern involves implementing the quotable interface.
Java provides a mechanism for cloning of objects that is very easy to implement.
You simply override clinical interface and call a clone method essentially.
You first need to implement the clinical interface you then need to find a clone method it should handle
clone not supported exception that will return a shallow copy the object what the shallow copy means
is if the copied object contains references to other objects.
So I had some kind of composition or aggregation relationship those objects are not copied.
That's a shallow copy a deep copy would clone even the referenced objects that has a relationships the
last thing you need to do is you call the clone method of the superclass.
It's pretty straightforward implement colonial and that's why we use it and the prototype even though
it has some issues.
So here's an example of use the quantum interface again.
This should be somewhat familiar from our previous lecture but just to just as a reminder you implement
that colonial interface.
That's step one.
If you have an object with a has a relationship that's a D copy so you don't overwrite it when you have
no right.
That means you're not overwriting clone and so here we're saying public person clone throws clone not
supported exception that step to where then calling Super on the clone.
That's Step 3.
We then if we want that only provides a shallow copy if we want to make a deal have the deep copy we
make a deep copy of city and we clone that as well and then assign it to our previously cloned object.
That's how we can do a deep copy but you need that extra step if you want to do both a shallow and deep
copy used in colonial interface.
But this is one way we would we would do it.
Now the advantages of using this are pretty straightforward.
It's the most popular and easiest way of copying objects.
This is why we use it for our proto type design pattern.
We need to define a better class implement colonial in it provide the nation of the tenth clone method
and then every child that has member variables over pair will get the cloning feature and they also
would have to add their own.
It requires for very few lines of code an abstract class with four or five long lines in the clone method.
And you also need to override it if we need cloning.
We should use clone to copy arrays because that's generally the fastest way to do it.
So there is no issue in using clone for arrays it's really just when we use it.
In general there are some issues.
So some of the problems what are those issues.
First off some academics think that cloning is deeply broken in Java the interface lacks the clone method
and so the carnival is a marker interface.
This is an interface that doesn't actually have the clone method inside of it.
For this example.
So it doesn't have any methods and it's just a mark interface.
There are quite a few of those serialized ovals and enter marker interface in Java believes well even
though you have to implement two methods to use it.
So we still need to implement it just to tell the JVM that we can perform clone on our object.
But the fact that it lacks a clone method a lot of academics think is an issue.
The clone method is protected as well.
And so we have to provide our own clone and indirectly call object that clone from it.
That's another problem.
We also don't have any control over the object construction because object clone does not invoke any
constructor.
So there are no guarantees that it preserves the invariant established by the constructors some constructors
will have actual extra logic to maybe do some validation or something and that that actually won't be
used when using colonial other problems with a colonial interface.
If you're writing a clone method and child class then all of its superclass classes should define the
clone method otherwise the Super Dog clone chain will fail.
So you have to add more code there object that Colin supports only shallow shallow copying as we mentioned
it does not clone any composition aggregation relationships you'll need to implement the clone in every
class whose reference our class is holding so that's more changes.
And then you have to call their clones separately and a clone method right.
Even though the way I just implemented it is I called clone on that object.
That means that that other object had to have the clone method.
We cannot manipulate final fields and object clone final fields can only be changed through constructors
if we want every object to be unique.
By adding an idea we'll get the duplicate object if we use object clone object that clone will not call
the constructor in the final ideas field cannot be modified from invoking the clone method.
So no final fields when using object clone more problems.
You can't actually do a polymorphic clone operation using foldable interface if you have an array of
colonial quotable objects.
You would think that I could run down that array and clone every element to make a copy of the array.
It doesn't work.
You cannot cast something to colonial and call the clone method Cornwall does not have a public clone
method.
As I mentioned earlier neither does object and so that that periphery its this problem if you try to
cast the Colonial and call the clone method the compiler will say you're trying to call the protect
the clone method on the object so there's no way around this the clone generally share a state with
the object being clone.
Another issue.
So if that state is mutable you do you have now have two independent objects.
If you modify one the other changes as well and all of a sudden you get random behaviour.
That's a big problem.
Colonial is a weak spot and you should be aware of these limitations when you're using them to implement
the prototype design pattern.
I'm bringing them to your attention so you know so there are all some alternatives you could create
your own copy constructor and this is much more common in C++ when you provide your own copy constructor.
It's just like a regular constructor except it returns a new instance of the class.
So as an input has an object which is supposed to be copied and then inside the body the constructor
you implement your custom cloning logic the method of copying objects is one of the most popular among
the developer community using this copy constructor.
It overcomes every design issue of object clone and it provides better control over object construction.
So this is one option.
And here's an example of providing a copy constructor you have your constructor it takes and an overloaded
constructor that takes the object that you want to clone and then you basically just individually copy
remember verbals and if you have aggregation of composition relationships you do the same.
You just go through each member variable and copy it.
And in this case for string and city you create new objects here
so even though you're doing that new and it could be expensive it's still the example of a basic copy
constructor advantages of the copy constructor versus the clone.
We mentioned a little bit of them but it doesn't force us to implement any interface or throw any exception.
So a little bit less code it doesn't require any casts when you want to use it.
It does not require us to depend on an unknown object creation mechanism.
It does not require parent classes to follow any contract or implement anything similar.
Number one.
It allows us to modify final fields.
That was a limitation in the colonial interface not modifying final fields it allows us to have complete
control over object creation.
We can write our own initialization logic in it we can also create converging constructors.
This allows us to convert one object to another object.
So providing your own copy constructor is an alternative and it does have some advantages over the colonial
interface.
Another alternative to using Colonial is to using serialization another way to copy an object is use
the serialization destabilisation approach instead of cloning.
You can serialize an object and then immediately serialize it.
This would result in a new instance created will still not be able to modify the final fields.
We still don't have any control over object instruction and we still need to implement an interface
serialized but which is similar to colonial the serialization process is also slower than object clone.
Here is the serialization de serialization approach.
You have your overloaded constructor that takes the person object and you basically do serialization
you first serialize the object and then you immediately serialize it by using our dot right object and
then reading in it.
This is how you implement serialization in Java by using the write in read objects and you have to catch
exceptions for that as well.
So you could use this as another alternative approach.
If you don't want to use the colonial interface with all its limitations the advantage of cloning using
serialization is it's an alternative the cloning interface.
So especially when you're using specific libraries such as Apache comments.
This can come into play.
It provides deep cloning.
Remember the cloning interface doesn't do that only shallow copies it's suitable even for complex object
grafts.
So you can use it for multiple use cases.
It can be used on existing classes that currently provide just shallow copy which is really the previous
example or advantage with deep clone so to summarize implementing the prototype design pattern using
phone method provided by Java is still the preferred approach.
It's really less code and it still for most use cases works because a lot of the things that are problems
with it you may not encounter or you may not actually care about.
So you implement the colonial interface you override the clone method you call super Doc clone of a
shallow copy is sufficient otherwise you have to implement some custom cloning logic for deep copy if
you don't want to use cloning because of the specific disadvantages mentioned.
Then you can implement either a copy constructor your own copy constructor which is pretty simple or
you can use serialization and even third party libraries will some do some of the serialization de sterilization
approach for you.
I wanted to provide information on some of the problems accountable because it is open for some debate
out there by academics.
I want you to be aware of it so when you implement this prototype pattern you know what the tradeoffs
are and if you really have issues with it it's very simple to use a copy constructor or you serialization
decentralization.
Thank you.